Set Up and Installation
59
3.3.5 Connect the Control Box to the Laser
1. Connect the 5-pin I/O cable of the Control Box cable to the CUBE Interface 
Cable, as shown in Figure-3-7.  
2. Confirm that the keyswitch on the Control Box is in the OFF position, as shown 
in Figure-3-8.  
3. Close the interlock with the supplied shorted RCA plug or connect the interlock 
to a remote interlock switch.
CAUTION!
The interlock is a fused + 5 VDC signal line. Do not connect to a ground 
circuit or the internal fuse may blow.
Figure-3-9 shows where to connect the Interlock to the Control Box.  
4. Apply power to the laser using the power supply rocker switch.
5. Turn the Control Box keyswitch to the ON position to initiate laser emission.
Figure 3-7.  Connect the Control Box
Figure 3-8.  Control Box Keyswitch

CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
60
NOTICE!
The CUBE laser system is shipped in CW Manual mode with a 5-second 
CDRH-required delay. The laser emission is active approximately five (5) 
seconds after the keyswitch is set to the ON position.
If computer control is not desired, the CUBE laser system starts without additional 
hardware or configuration settings. If computer control is desired, see “Computer 
Control” (p. 95).
The CUBE laser system uses the following connections, shown in Figure-3-10, 
plus a choice of Heat Sink.  
Figure 3-9.  Control Box Interlock Connection
Interlock shorting
RCA plug
Figure 3-10.  CUBE Laser System Set-Up

Set Up and Installation
61
Table 3-2 lists the components shipped with a complete CUBE laser system:  
Note that the Quatro Cable connects to an optional CUBE I/O Interface Cable, 
with 8-Pin to Flying Leads (P/N 1103937), which is not included with the laser 
system and must be ordered separately.
See “Operations” (p. 67) for additional details about connections for Analog and 
Digital Modulation.
3.4 Connect Laser to Computer
The CUBE laser system can control laser power or other parameters remotely 
using CUBE Connection software installed on a host computer or laptop.
• For details about installing and usin g the CUBE Connection software, see 
“Coherent CUBE Connection Software” (p. 77). This section includes 
installation instructions for the software, which is shipped with the CUBE laser 
system. You can also download the software from the Coherent website at:
https://www.coherent.com/lasers/laser/cube-lasers
• For a list of computer controls and queries for both Continuous Wave (CW) and 
Pulsed operations, also see “Computer Control” (p. 95). 
All remote computer settings are stored each time the system is powered down. 
Use the “?S” query to display a complete list of current settings.
NOTICE!
A null-modem cable will not operate the CUBE laser system. The CUBE is a 
DCE device and requires a standard serial cable.
Before communications can take place, you must set up a physical connection.
For connection with Windows 10 and Windows 7 (64-bit) an RS-232 connection is 
required. Coherent offers an optional High-Speed USB-to-Serial RS-232 Adapter 
(P/N 1415602), shown in Figure-3-11.  
Table 3-2.  Components of a CUBE Laser System
# P/N COMPONENT
1 Varies CUBE Laser Head
2 1039966 CUBE Control Box
3 1072454 CUBE Power Supply, 6 VDC, 2.5A, Switched
4 1108063 Power Cord
5 1072166 CUBE Interface Cable (Quatro Digital Interface from the 
CUBE laser to the control box, I/O, RS-232, and power)
1108906 USB Cable (see Figure-3-12)
1147585 CUBE Quick Start Guide 
1079890 CD-ROM with CUBE Operator’s Manual and Coherent 
CUBE Connection Software
CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
62
For connection with a 32-bit operating system, a USB connection can be used. 
This USB cable, shown in Figure-3-12, is included with the CUBE Laser System. 
Each of these connections are described in the sections that follow.
3.4.1 RS-232 Connection
To enable RS-232 communications between the CUBE laser and a 64-bit host 
computer, a physical connection must be made to be able to utilizes the pin-outs 
on the RS-232 connector.
To do so, connect the serial interface cable to the optional CUBE High-Speed 
USB-to-Serial RS-232 Adapter (P/N 1415602). This optional adapter, shown in 
Figure-3-11, is available from Coherent and is sold separately.
This Adapter allows connection of a serial RS-232 device (CUBE laser) to a host 
computer with a USB Type-A port. A 3-foot detachable USB Type-A Male to USB 
Type-B Male cable is included. This connector is compatible with operating 
systems for Windows XP, Windows 7, and Windows 10.
3.4.1.1 RS-232 Input Pins
Table 3-3 and Table 3-4 list the input pins from the RS-232 connector to the 
computer.
You can connect directly to the CUBE DE-15 connector or the CUBE interface 
cable DE-9 connector. Note the differences for a DE-9 interface cable or a DE-15 
interface cable.
 
Figure 3-11.  Connect Optional RS-232 Interface Cable
Figure 3-12.  USB Cable

Set Up and Installation
63
3.4.1.2 RS-232 Comm unication Settings
Table 3-5 lists the settings for the RS-232 connector. 
3.4.2 USB Connection
Each CUBE laser system includes Coherent CUBE Connection software for USB 
laser control in a graphical user interface (GUI) environment.
IMPORTANT!
A direct USB connection between the laser and a host computer is 
compatible ONLY with older 32-bit operating systems. 
A USB connection IS NOT valid for interfacing with Windows 7 (64-bit) or 
Windows 10 operating systems.
This can be resolved using the optional High-Speed USB-to-Serial RS-232 
Adapter (P/N 1415602), described next. Using this adapter, all RS-232 
commands and queries are available via a USB connection to the host computer.
Table 3-3.  DE-9 INTERFACE CABLE CONNECTOR
PIN NUMBER DESCRIPTION
2 RS-232 Transmit
3 RS-232 Receive
5 Ground
Table 3-4.  DE-15 LASER CONNECTOR
PIN NUMBER DESCRIPTION
4 RS-232 Transmit
5 RS-232 Receive
6 Ground
Table 3-5.  RS-232 Communication Settings
SETTING VALUE
Baud 19200
Parity None
Data Bits 8
Stop Bits 1
Flow Control None
CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
64
3.4.3 Factory Defaults
Table 3-6 lists the factory default settings.  
3.4.4 Connect the Laser for Remote Control
Before you make a connection for remote control, set up the CUBE laser system 
as follows This assumes you have already downloaded and installed software.
1. Mount the CUBE laser on either the opt ional CUBE Heat Sink, the Right-Angle 
Heat Sink Mount, or a mounting surface capable of providing adequate thermal 
dissipation.
2. Connect the Interface cable to the laser head.
3. Connect the Control Box to the interface cable. Ensure the keyswitch is in the 
OFF position.
4. Connect the power supply.
5. Select the appropriate cable for remote control:
• If using an older host computer with 32-bit operating system, connect a 
USB cable.
• For 64-bit systems, connect an RS-232 cable to the computer shown in 
Figure-3-13.  
Table 3-6.  Factory Default Settings
SETTING DESCRIPTION
>=1 Command prompt on
CDRH=1 5-second emission delay active
DST=22 Diode set temperature is 22ºC
E=1 Echo on
P= <Nominal Laser Power> Output power set to nominal
CW=1 CW laser emission
ANA=0 External analog connector power control
EXT=0 External power control off
Figure 3-13.  Optional USB-to-Serial RS-232 Adapter

Set Up and Installation
65
6. Install the Coherent CUBE Connection software.
7. Turn power ON.
8. Open the Coherent CUBE Connection pr ogram. The Home Screen launches.
9. Turn the keyswitch on the control box to the ON position. Laser emission starts 
in approximately 5 seconds.
The laser starts in Continuous Wave (CW) mode at full power. 
For Digital modulation, after remote communication is established, use the 
“CW=0” command to set Pulse operation mode. When Pulse mode is active, the 
laser modulation is controlled by the TTL input through the SMB connector.
For more information about using commands to control the amplitude of the pulse 
output, see “Computer Control” (p. 95).
CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
66
67
4O PERATIONS
The CUBE Laser System operates in a variety of laser emission modes.
• Continuous Wave (Manual mode | CW operations) 
• Pulsed operation (Analog modulation)
• Digital control (Digital modulation)
• Mixed modulation (also referred to as  Pulsed Mode with Digital Control using 
both Digital and Analog modulation) 
Table 4-1 lists performance characteristics of the various modulation methods.  
IMPORTANT!
Refer to the CUBE Laser data sheet for specifications about each CUBE 
laser, including maximum bandwidth, rise and fall times, and other details to 
consider for your installation. 
Table 4-1.  Control Input Performance Characteristics
SYSTEM SPECIFICATIONS VALUE
Digital Modulation
Maximum Bandwidth
Rise and Fall Time (10 to 90%)
Modulation Depth at 0 Hz
Modulation Depth at 150 MHz
Input Impedance
150 MHz a
< 2 nsec b
> 1,000,000:1 (106:1)
> 250:1
50 ohms
a. For CUBE 445-40C and CUBE 488-50C: The Maximum Bandwidth for Digital 
Modulation is 125 MHz.
b. Only on CUBE 445: Fall Time < 3 nsec with 125 MHz maximum bandwidth. Actual 
performance values are listed in the data sheet for a specific CUBE laser wavelength 
and power.
Analog Modulation
Maximum Bandwidth
Rise and Fall Time (10 to 90%)
Modulation Depth
Input Impedance
350 KHz c
< 1 µsec
> 10,000:1
2000 ohms
c. For CUBE 375: The Maximum Bandwidth for Analog Modulation is 705 kHz.
Laser Enable Control Input
Maximum Bandwidth
Rise and Fall Time (10 to 90%)
Modulation Depth
Input Impedance
130 KHz
<1 µsec
Infinity, Complete On/Off
7000 ohms
Interlock Control Input
Maximum Bandwidth
Rise and Fall Time (10 to 90%)
Modulation Depth
Input Impedance
7H z
< 1 µsec
Infinity, Complete On/Off
7000 ohms
CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
68
The CUBE Laser System controls the output power with an external DC voltage 
source. The modulated output must be controlled with external analog or digital 
signals. Modulation signals are connected to the back of the CUBE laser through 
the SMB connector.
NOTICE!
The CUBE laser system is delivered in CW Power mode. Operating in other 
modes requires USB or RS-232 remote control from a computer running 
either Coherent CUBE Connection software or a terminal program. See 
“Computer Control” (p. 95) for more information.
The CUBE laser system includes complete remote communication and control via 
RS-232 or USB connection. See “Computer Control” (p. 95) for more information.
4.1 Before You Begin
Normal operation assumes that the following initial configuration steps have been 
taken, do the system is set up and ready to use:
1. The CUBE laser system has been mounted to a proper Heat Sink and torque 
specifications. Refer to “Set Up and Installation” (p. 53) for Heat Sink and 
torque requirements.
2. The interface cable has been connected to the laser, power supply, and 
Control Box.
3. The main power switch on the power su pply is in the OFF (“0”) position.
4. The keyswitch on the Control Box is in the OFF position.
5. The laser has been connected to the power supply.
6. The power supply has been connected to electrical power.
CAUTION!
Optics or objects in front of the laser can reflect a part of the beam back into 
the laser. This event—known as back reflection—can cause instability, noise, 
or laser damage. For more information, see “Laser Back Reflection” (p. 16).
4.2 Continuous Wave (CW) Operation
CUBE lasers have a closed light loop circuit, internal to the laser, that operates 
the laser in a Constant Power mode. This operating mode is called CW:Power.
NOTICE!
The CUBE laser system is shipped in CW Manual mode with a CDRH delay. 
Laser emission occurs approximately five seconds after the keyswitch is set 
to the ON position.
Operations
69
A normal DC type voltage input provides direct CW power control. A typical 
start-up sequence includes:
1. Toggle the power switch for the laser to the ON position. The Status LED on the 
laser flashes green at 2.5 Hz, which shows that the laser is in warm-up mode. 
2. Wait until the Status LED on the la ser turns blue. The laser completes its 
warm-up mode and goes into STANDBY mode.
3. Turn the Control Box keyswitch to the ON position to initiate laser emission. 
The Status LED on the laser turns white and remains white when the laser 
emission is ON.
4. After safe laser beam cont rol is ensured, move the laser shutter to the OPEN 
position, as indicated on the laser top label. Take appropriate safety measures 
to avoid exposure to direct or reflected laser radiation.
The factory default system configuration—and the steps above—allow for 
computer control without additional configuration settings.
For information about remote control of the laser, including a list of computer 
controls and queries, see “Computer Control” (p. 95).
4.3 Analog Modulation (Pulsed) Control
The CUBE laser system provides the capability to control the output power with 
an external voltage source.
CUBE lasers offer Analog modulation that allow the laser output power to track an 
analog input voltage. Analog modulation can be used with a DC voltage source to 
change the output power. Also sine wave, triangle wave or any arbitrary 
waveform can be used to control the laser power by tracking the input voltage.
The Control Box BNC connector controls laser power with an analog input 
proportional to the laser output. Figure-4-1 shows the BNC connector for analog 
modulation on the Control Box:  
Figure 4-1.   Connection for Analog Modulation

CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
70
For actual wavelength and power performance values, refer to the CUBE laser 
data sheet for specifications. For example, the laser can be modulated at 
150 MHz with a continuously changing amplitude up to 350 KHz. For actual 
wavelength and power performance values, refer to the data sheet for your 
specific laser.
Figure-4-2 shows typical waveforms under Pulsed Operation (Analog 
modulation). In this example, the analog signal is a 0 to 5V, 50 kHz, square wave. NOTICE:
You must send the EXT=1 command through RS-232 or USB for the Analog 
Power control to be active.
Table 4-2 lists the input connections for Analog Modulation (BNC input on the 
Control Box).  
The Analog Control can change the output power at a maximum bandwidth. See 
the data sheet for your specific laser for details about maximum bandwidth and 
other specifications. The external analog input provides the capability to vary the 
output power from minimum to 100%.
The Analog modulation input voltage is controlled from 0 to 5 volts. At 0 volts, the 
laser is at minimum output power. With 5 volts input, the laser is at 110% of its 
rated output power, as shown in the graph in Figure-4-3.  
Figure 4-2.  Waveforms for Pulsed Operation (Analog Modulation)
Modulation signal
from function generator
Laser output power
received by optical detector
Table 4-2.  Analog Modulation Input Connections
ANALOG MODULATION
BNC CONNECTOR RANGE DESCRIPTION
+VDC 0 to 5V Analog Input (+) Maximum Bandwidth
GND N/A Analog Input (–) Ground for Analog Input
Operations
71
NOTICE:
For Analog Power Control to be active, you must send the EXT=1 command 
using host communications through Coherent CUBE Connection or a host 
computer terminal program while connected through the RS-232 connection 
using a RS-232 to USB adapter (sold separately).
The CUBE laser system provides a complete set of input and output controls 
through the DE-15 connector. For a complete list of connector functions, refer to 
Table 2-3, “Interface Cable Pin-Outs,” on page 35.
4.3.0.1 Constant Power (L ight Regulation) Mode
The Constant Power mode uses a sample of the laser output power to control the 
laser diode current and establish a light output power level by this feedback. The 
computer sets the maximum laser output power by varying the reference voltage 
to the light feedback error amplifier. Analog modulation operates the same way by 
varying the reference voltage from the maximum set by the computer. See 
Figure-4-4.  
To access the analog modulation input, connect to the BNC on the front of the 
Control Box.
The Constant Power mode has the advantage of compensating for aging in the 
diode by sampling the light output level directly and always driving the necessary 
current through the laser diode to maintain the power level. Another advantage is 
that light output verses modulation input voltage is forced to be linear and directly 
proportional.
Figure 4-3.  Analog Modulation: Power vs. Input Voltage
0
110
100
80
60
40
20
0 654321
Input Voltage (V)
Output Power (%)
CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
72
4.3.0.2 Analog Modulation (Constant Current) Mode
The Analog Modulation mode sets the laser diode drive to a constant current 
value. The amount of current drive is adjusted to a level necessary to produce the 
set output power level.
The digital modulation input is used to turn the output power on and off, with ON 
being a TTL high input. The computer sets the output power level to the proper 
value at the time the mode is entered, or by the user issuing a “CAL” command.
In this mode, the analog modulation operates to decrease the operating current 
proportional the input voltage. The effect of this input voltage on the power output 
is dependent upon the laser diode slope of current verses power. See Figure-4-5.
The level at which the light output reaches a minimum is also dependent upon the 
diode and will vary from diode to diode. To assure that a given maximum output 
power is available, a “CAL=” command should be issued on a regular schedule to 
compensate for laser diode aging.
Figure 4-4.  Example: CUBE Analog Modulation in Constant Power (CW) Mode
Analog input
Laser output
Figure 4-5.  Example: CUBE Analog Modulation in Pulse Mode
Output Power (mW)
Analog Modulation Input (volts)
Operations
73
4.4 Digital Modulation
For applications requiring a laser to turn ON and OFF in Digital mode, CUBE 
lasers offer Digital modulation. CUBE lasers can be modulated in the Digital 
mode from minimum power to the Set Power.
Table 4-3 lists the Digital Modulation input connections:  
For Digital Modulation, connect the external pulse source to the SMB connector 
on the back panel of the CUBE laser, as shown in Figure-4-6. The laser SMB 
connector has an input impedance of 50 ohm.  
When operating in Digital Modulation mode at the Digital SMB input, the voltage 
input signal needs a minimum 30 mA drive current capability into 50 ohms. 
Computer I/O DAQ products frequently do not provide an output drive/source 
current level that can drive a 50 ohm load.
In such instances, use an additional line driver intended for use with I/O hardware 
with TTL/CMOS outputs to provide the 50 ohm Digital Modulation drive current 
requirement.
Table 4-3.  Digital Modulation Input Connections
DIGITAL MODULATION
PIN NUMBER RANGE DESCRIPTION
Center <0 . 8V TTL Low Signal = Laser Threshold Power
>2 . 6V TTL High Signal = Nominal or Stored Laser Power
Outside SMB Connector Ground
Figure 4-6.   Connection for Digital Modulation

CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
74
Typical Waveforms and rise/fall time under Digital modulation are shown in 
Figure-4-7. 
In the example shown, the digital signal is 1.1 to 3.3 Volts, 10 MHz, square wave 
The TTL levels must be maintained for a minimum of 2.5 ns. The logic of the laser 
head electronics is “active high,” which means that the TTL high level is equal to 
laser ON.
In such instances, use an additional line driver intended for use with I/O hardware 
with TTL/CMOS outputs to provide the 50 ohm Digital Modulation drive current 
requirement.
1. Connect the laser as shown in “Set Up and Installation” (p. 53).
2. Connect a signal generator cable (impedance Z = 50 Ω ) between the laser 
head and the DC voltage source (maximum frequency depends on 
specifications for each model of the CUBE laser).
The Digital modulation voltage signal has to be TTL-level (V Low < 0.8 V and 
V High > 2.6 V) with an impedance of 50 Ω .
Use the “CAL” command to control the amplitude of the pulse output. Enter a 
power <value> in mW, using the following command for example: 
“CAL=<value>”.
NOTICE!
Based on differences between optical Rise Time and Fall Time—combined 
with the associated delay difference between the digital input and optical 
output—150 MHz modulation is not achievable with a 50-50 duty cycle. Refer 
to the CUBE laser data sheet for specifications.
3. Adjust the duty cycle as needed to achieve maximum optical pulse amplitude 
at the desired modulation frequency.
4.5 Mixed Modulation Mode
The CUBE laser system has two operating modes: CW (constant power) and 
Pulse (constant current). The Pulse mode offers advantages of both digital and 
analog inputs. In many applications, these laser features can help replace 
external modulation controls to save cost and space. The CUBE Laser System 
can be modulated by both analog and digital signals at the same time.
Figure 4-7.  Digital Modulation Timing Diagrams
Modulation signal
from function generator
Laser output power
received by optical detector
Operations
75
The Laser can be operated with Mixed Modulation to vary the laser output power 
with a analog signal and a digital signal to turn the laser ON and OFF. The 
advantage of Mixed Modulation mode is to control the laser power separately 
from switching the laser from ON to OFF.
An example of mixed modulation is shown in Figure-4-8. In this example, the 
analog signal is a 0 to 5 VDC, 1 kHz triangle wave and the digital signal is a 1.1. 
to 3.3 Volts, 30 kHz, square wave. 
When setting up the system to use Pulsed operations in Mixed modulation mode, 
connect the external pulse source to the SMB input connector for Digital On/Off 
operation as shown in Figure-4-9. This laser SMB connector provides digital TTL 
input laser control.  
NOTICE!
The SMB input connector is a 50 Ω  input impedance. The digital input 
requires a TTL high for laser on and TTL low for laser off, with a drive/source 
current level > 30 mA.
Figure 4-8.  Waveforms for Mixed Modulation
Figure 4-9.  Digital Modulation (Pulsel) Connection
Analog signal
Digital signal
Laser output

CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
76
NOTICE:
The Control Box BNC connector has an input impedance of 2.2 K ohm.
The Control Box BNC connector can be used to control the amplitude of the 
digital modulation output. For example, the analog input can be combined with 
the digital input to control the amplitude of the high frequency modulation signal at 
the 350 KHz rate. See the data sheet for specifications about each CUBE laser.
4.5.0.1 Replacing External Modul ation System with the CUBE
The equivalent of a Laser operating through an AOM can be achieved by using 
the CUBE Laser in Pulse mode.
The ON-OFF control line connects to the Digital modulation input (SMB 
connector, 50 ohm input) and the output level control line connects to the Analog 
modulation input (CUBE DE-15 connector). This arrangement allows the output 
power level to be controlled by the Analog input voltage and be turned ON-OFF 
by the Digital modulation input voltage (TTL High is ON). 
The “CAL=” command sets the maximum output power when the Analog 
modulation is at + 5 VDC and the Digital modulation is set to TTL high. The rise 
and fall times for the Digital modulation input are less than 2 ns with a maximum 
bandwidth of greater than 150 MHz. Refer to the CUBE Laser data sheet for 
specifications for your laser.
77
5C OHERENT CUBE CONNECTION 
SOFTWARE
The Coherent CUBE Connection software provides simple graphical access to 
the Coherent CUBE system.
This software is shipped on a CD with the CUBE laser system. However, because 
many of today’s host computers and laptops are no longer equipped with a CD 
drive as standard equipment, you can also download the current software from 
the Coherent website:
https://www.coherent.com/lasers/laser/cube-lasers
This software displays variable settings, and allows to you set binary functions 
with the click of a mouse.  
The CUBE Connection software generally operates intuitively. The limits of 
adjustable parameters and operation of binary functions are described in the 
section, “Computer Control” (p. 95)”.
Th CUBE Connection software offers a terminal window to enter standard 
RS-232 commands as text for program development purposes. CUBE RS-232 
command protocol requires capital letters for each command or query.
5.0.1 Software Installation
This section describes how to set up and install the Coherent CUBE Connection 
software and related drivers for the CUBE laser system. 
To download the latest version of the Coherent CUBE Connection software:
1. Go to the Coherent website and search for “CUBE”. 
https://www.coherent.com/lasers/laser/cube-lasers
2. On the product page, scroll to the bottom and select the icon for CUBE 
Connection:
3. Click the icon to either O pen or Save the ZIP file.
Using this software, you can control laser power or other parameters directly 
through an RS-232 connection or, for 32-bit operating systems, a USB 
connection.
The Coherent CUBE Connection software CD contains the software and USB 
drivers necessary to operate the CUBE remotely via USB

CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
78
To start the software installation process:
1. Place the Coherent CUBE Connection  software CD into the computer CD 
drive. The software installation process automatically starts. The installation 
process automatically loads the necessary USB drivers.
2. The installation dialog box shown in Figure-5-1 welcomes the user and 
provides brief copyright information. Click “Next” to continue installation. 
3. The installation dialog box shown in Figu re-5-2 displays the Software License 
Agreement. Review the contents.  
Figure 5-1.  Software Installation — Welcome Screen
Figure 5-2.  Software Installation — Software License

CUBE Connection Software
79
4. Scroll down to read all terms and condit ions, then click “I Agree” as shown in 
Figure-5-3 to continue the installation.  
5. The installation dialog box shown in Fi gure-5-4 displays the default location for 
the Coherent CUBE Connection software installation. Click “Next” to continue 
the installation or click “Browse” to select a different location in which to install 
the software.  
Figure 5-3.  Software Installation — Software License Agreement 
Figure 5-4.  Software Installation — Directory for Installation

CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
80
6. The installation dialog box shown in Figure-5-5 displays the program manager 
designation for the Coherent CUBE Connection software. The text is displayed 
when you click “Start” then “Programs” in Windows.  
One selection you may want to install for ease of use is the Coherent icon, 
listed in Figure-5-6.  
Figure 5-5.  Software Installation — Select Icons to Display
Figure 5-6.  Software Installation — Example of Icon Selected

CUBE Connection Software
81
7. The installation dialog box shown in Figure-5-7 completes the settings 
associated with the software installation. Click the “Back” button to change any 
settings. Click the “Next” button to install the software in the selected location.  
8. The installation dialog box shown in Figure-5-8 displays the progress of the 
software installation.  
Figure 5-7.  Software Installation — Settings Selected
Figure 5-8.  Software Installation — Progress Bar

CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
82
9. The installation dialog box shown in Figure-5-9 confirms the successful 
installation of the Coherent CUBE Connection software.  
10. Click the “OK” button shown in Figure-5-10 to restart the computer and register 
the Coherent CUBE Connection files and USB drivers.  
11. When the computer restart is complete, a Coherent CUBE Connection shortcut 
icon is displayed on the computer desktop. Double-click on the icon to start the 
Coherent CUBE Connection program.
The Coherent CUBE Connection software installation is complete.
The next sections describe the tool bar and the user interface for the Coherent 
CUBE Connection software.
Figure 5-9.  Software Installation — Software Installed Successfully
Figure 5-10.  Software Installation — System Restart

CUBE Connection Software
83
5.1 Coherent CUBE Connection Tool Bar
The Coherent CUBE Connection Tool Bar provides quick access to the screens 
and functions.
 
• Menu access to the Open, Save, and Print functions is located in the File 
menu. 
• Menu access to Coherent CUBE Connecti on screens is located in the View 
menu.
5.1.1 Open Button
The Open button displays a standard Windows Open dialog. The default file 
type is .cfg, representing a Configuration file. The Configuration file is used to 
store and recall all Coherent CUBE Connection settings.
5.1.2 Save Button
The Save button displays a standard Windows Save dialog. Enter a desired 
file name and click “Save” to store all current Coherent CUBE Connection 
settings to a .cfg file. Use the “Open” button to restore these settings later.
5.1.3 Print Button
The Print button provides the capability to print Configuration files or the 
active Coherent CUBE Connection window. Select the type of print function and 
then click “OK” to print on the selected printer.
5.1.4 Home Button
The Home button switches to the Home screen. Review the Home screen 
for additional detail associated with screen functions.
5.1.5 Settings Button
The Settings button switches to the Settings screen. Review the Settings 
screen for additional detail associated with screen functions.
5.1.6 Information Button
The Information button switches to the Information screen. Review the 
Information screen for additional detail associated with screen functions.
5.1.7 Terminal Button
The Terminal button switches to the Terminal screen. Review the Terminal 
screen for additional detail associated with screen functions.

CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
84
5.1.8 System Status
The System Status displays at the bottom of all Coherent 
CUBE Connection screens. The status indicates normal operation or fault 
condition. If a fault condition is indicated, check the Fault Screen for the specific 
fault. If a fault has the capability to reduce laser diode life, laser emission is 
interrupted until the fault is resolved.
5.2 CUBE Connection User Interface
This section describes the interface for the Coherent CUBE Connection software.
5.2.1 Home Screen
The Home screen shown in Figure-5-11 displays common information associated 
with the laser operation. The Current gauge is displayed or hidden with a check 
box on the Setting screen. Specific faults are displayed on the Fault screen.  
5.2.2 Wavelength Icon
The displayed icon color indicates the wavelength of the laser connected to the 
Coherent CUBE Connection software. The values listed do not indicate the exact 
laser wavelength. The specific diode wavelength is shown on the system serial 
number label. 
Figure 5-11.  CUBE Home Screen

CUBE Connection Software
85
5.2.3 Hour Counter
The Hour Counter screen displays the current hours of laser diode operation. The 
counter increments when laser emission is active.  
When the laser is in Standby, the counter does not increment. If the laser diode is 
replaced, the hour counter represents the hours of the installed diode.
5.2.4 Laser Emission Status
The Laser Emission Status screen indicates the current state of laser output and 
system status. The central indicator also shows Standby, CDRH Delay, and 
System Faults. The ON and OFF buttons are used to toggle laser emission. 
5.2.5 Laser Mode Status
The Laser Mode Status indicators display the current output status for the CUBE.  
NOTICE!
If lower power CW is observed, ensure both the Pulse and Analog are 
displayed in a disabled condition.
• When the Pulse is active, the laser output  is controlled by an external digital 
signal to the back panel SMB connection. 
• When the Analog is active, the laser outp ut is controlled by an external voltage 
source input to the Control Box BNC connector.
NOTICE!
When the Pulse is active, the laser runs at threshold power. A laser running 
at threshold power can be interpreted as a CW laser problem. 
Click the CW indicator to restore normal CW power levels. Laser modulation is 
controlled by a TTL digital signal through the SMB connector.

CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
86
5.2.6 Laser Output Indicator
The laser output indicator is a relative display of laser output power. Coherent 
recommends using one of the external laser power meters—listed in “Power 
Meters and Sensors” (p. 115)—for precision measurement of laser output power. 
Laser output power can be changed by using either of the following methods:
• Entering a value and then clicking the Set button.
• Dragging the slider and then clicking Set. 
Add a relative laser current display by checking the Show combination 
Power/Current gauge on the Home Screen box on the Settings screen. The 
displayed current should be considered a relative value.
The Green to Red transition indicates maximum laser power.
5.2.7 Temperature Display
The temperature display shows a combination of the current diode and base plate 
temperature.  
The diode temperature represents the measured diode temperature and not the 
set temperature. Use the Settings screen to change the diode temperature. The 
Red to Green transition represents maximum diode and base plate temperature.
Double-click the Temperature gauge to display values in Fahrenheit. Double-click 
again to return values to Celsius.

CUBE Connection Software
87
Double-click the Power Gauge to display laser current. Double-click again to 
return the display to power only. 
5.2.8 Settings Screen
The Settings screen is used to change various system and display parameters. 
All settings displayed on the Settings screen are stored when the application is 
closed. Laser-specific settings are stored in the laser when the laser is powered 
down.  
5.2.9 Settings
The Settings section contains check boxes used to set Home screen display 
options and the laser status when exiting Sleep mode. 
Use the first check box to show or omit the current display, in combination with 
the power display on the Home screen.

CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
88
Use the second check box to set the units for the diode and base plate 
temperature display on the Home screen. If the box is not checked, degrees 
Celsius is displayed on the Home screen.
If the third check box is checked, the previous laser emission status is restored 
when the system exits Sleep mode. If the box is not checked, laser emission is 
automatically restored when the system exits Sleep mode. 
5.2.10 System Settings
The System Settings section is used to control the CDRH delay and External 
Analog power control status for the connected CUBE laser.  
CDRH Five-Second Delay
To maintain compliance with CDRH regulations, the system is shipped with the 
CDRH delay active. The CDRH Five-Second Delay radio buttons are used to 
toggle emission delay status.  
• When the Enable button is selected, a five-second delay is applied each time 
laser emission is interrupted. These interruptions include an open interlock and 
fault conditions.
• When the Disable button is selected, la ser emission are immediately restored.

CUBE Connection Software
89
External Analog Power Control
The External Analog Power Control radio button is used to set the state of power 
control. 
• When the External Analog Power Control is enabled, the laser output power is 
directly controlled by the Analog signal input through the Control Box BNC 
connector. 
• When the External Analog Power Contro l is disabled, the laser output power 
is controlled by the Coherent CUBE Connection software.
5.2.11 Pulse Power Calibration
The Pulse Power Calibration function sets the amplitude of the digital laser 
pulses. This function is only available in Pulse mode.
Secondary control of the pulse amplitude is available though a voltage input to 
the Control Box BNC, with the External Analog Power Control active. 
To change the amplitude of the digital laser pulses, enter a laser power value and 
click Set Power.
5.2.12 Information Screen
The Information screen displays system information and current performance 
parameters.

CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
90
5.2.13 CUBE Laser Information
The CUBE Laser information section contains static information associated with 
the selected laser. The model name, serial number, part number, and nominal 
wavelength are read from the selected laser EEPROM. The displayed 
wavelength is a nominal value. The exact wavelength is shown on the system 
serial number label.
5.2.14 CUBE Laser Status
The CUBE Laser Status section lists of operating parameters. The information 
shown below represents a typical 405 nm system. 
Table 5-1 lists the operating parameters.  
Table 5-1.  Operating Parameters
PARAMETER DESCRIPTION
Operating Status Operating Status displays the Standby, Fault, or Ready condition of the system.
Manual Mode Manual mode represents the Start-up mode for the selected system. When Manual mode is 
active, laser emission is automatic, following diode temperature stabilization and CDRH delay 
condition. When Manual mode is disabled, the Laser On button on the Home screen must be 
clicked to initiate laser emission. Manual mode is controlled by the state of pin 3 on the DE-15 
or pin 1 on the I/O connector. No connection to this pin defaults to Manual mode (Auto-start). 
When this pin is pulled low, laser emission must be initiated with computer control.
Nominal Power Nominal Power represents the normal laser output power. Refer to Max Light Ctrl Pwr, below, 
for the maximum laser output power available.
Min Light Ctrl Pwr Minimum Light Control Power represents the laser threshold output power. The value listed 
corresponds to the laser output power when the system is running in Pulse mode without a 
digital input to the SMB connector.
CUBE Connection Software
91
5.2.15 Terminal Screen
The Terminal screen is used to send individual commands or scripts to the CUBE 
through an RS-232 connection to an RS-232 to USB Adapter (accessory sold 
separately).
Review the RS-232 commands and queries for a complete list of items available 
through the Terminal screen. 
The Clear Text button clears all information displayed in the Terminal window. 
Max Light Ctrl Pwr Maximum Light Control Power represents the maximum power setting available.
Diode Current Diode Current displays the relative laser diode current. This is an indirect measurement and is 
not considered absolute. Use this parameter as a tool to observe changes in diode current.
Diode Temp Diode Temperature is the measured diode temperature. This value is updated continuously.
Base Plate Temp Base Plate Temperature is updated continuously. If the base plate temperature exceeds 50ºC, 
the software protects the diode by interrupting laser emission. When the temperature returns 
below 50ºC, laser emission is automatically restored.
Interlock Status Interlock Status is updated continuously. When the Control Box key is in the On position, the 
status displays as closed. If the key is switched to the Off position, the status displays as open.
Hours The Hours Counter displays the current hours of laser diode operation. The counter increments 
when laser emission is active. When the laser is in Standby, the counter does not increment. If 
the laser diode is replaced, the hour counter represents the hours of the installed diode.
Table 5-1.  Operating Parameters (continued)
PARAMETER DESCRIPTION

CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
92
5.2.16 Script File
The Open button displays a standard Windows Open dialog. To load a Script file 
into the Terminal window, select the desired file and click Open. Then click the 
Start button to execute the displayed script. Checking the Loop Script box will 
continually run the display script. 

93
6A DVANCED PROCEDURES
This section describes the following advanced features of the CUBE laser 
system:
• Change the state of the CDRH-required delay
• Set non-lasing conditions for intermittent use of the CUBE laser system
6.1 CDRH Feature
The Coherent CUBE is shipped as a CDRH-compliant laser system. The 
CDRH-required delay of approximately five seconds occurs between a laser 
ready condition and emission of laser light. This delay allows the user to take 
appropriate safety precautions prior to laser emission. 
After the system is running, the CDRH-required delay is not applied each time the 
laser emission is remotely toggled on and off.
The CDRH setting is stored in memory.
6.1.1 Disable CDRH Procedure
The ability to change the state of the CDRH-required delay requires remote 
communication to the Coherent CUBE laser system via RS-232.
WARNING!
This operation defeats the safety controls required by the appropriate 
regulatory agencies. With the use of these commands, the customer 
assumes all responsibility for safety and proper compliance to CDRH 21 CFR 
1040 and IEC60825-1.
See “Computer Control” (p. 95) for commands to establish remote communication 
with the CUBE laser system.
• To defeat the CDRH-required de lay, use the “CDRH=0” command.
The current CDRH-required delay state can be interrogated by the computer 
with the “?CDRH” query.
• To restore the CDRH-required de lay, use the “CDRH=1” command.
CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
94
6.2 System Standby and Sleep Mode
For users requiring intermittent use of the CUBE laser system, two levels of 
non-lasing conditions are offered:
• The “Standby” condition represents the Thermoelectric Cooler (TEC), 
maintaining constant diode temperature with the laser diode off.
• A “Sleep Mode” condition includes  a laser-OFF condition with no TEC 
temperature control.
Laser output can be immediately initiated in a “Standby” condition. When the 
system is in Sleep mode, it requires a warm-up cycle (not to exceed five minutes) 
prior to laser emission.
• Standby Condition: L=0 T=1
• Sleep Mode: L=0 T=0
See “Computer Control” (p. 95)” for additional computer control information about 
the “L” and “T” conditions.
95
7C OMPUTER CONTROL
Almost any operation that can be performed or controlled using the keyboard with 
the CUBE Connection software can be done using remote control commands.
The CUBE laser system includes complete remote control capability through an 
RS-232 serial interface (when using a 64-bit operating system) or a USB 
connection (when using an older 32-bit operating system).
Using the Remote feature generally requires both hardware and software (a 
terminal program that supports the RS-232 protocol). For set-up instructions, see 
“Connect the Laser for Remote Control” (p. 64) for details about setting up the 
physical connection.
7.1 Manual Control
The CUBE is shipped in Manual mode. All of the RS-232 commands and queries 
are still available in Manual mode. Defeating Manual mode allows exclusive 
computer control, locking out the control cable and I/O cable controls. 
NOTICE:
To defeat the Manual mode, insert a jumper between pins 1 and 2 on the 
interface cable I/O connector.
All remote computer settings are stored each time the system is powered down. 
Use the “?S” query to display a complete list of current settings.
7.2 Continuous Wave (CW) Commands 
and Queries
The CUBE command prompt provides feedback associated with the current 
system status and the command or query entered.
Refer to the “?F” query in Table 7-1, “RS-232 CW Commands and Queries,” on 
page 96 for a complete list of values returned with the command prompt.
Syntax:
Command=<value>
A CUBE command is used to change a present setting. The syntax used for 
CUBE commands is the command followed by an equal sign and a value. No 
spaces are used between the command, equal sign, and the value.
?Query
A CUBE query is defined by a question mark (“?”) prior to the query. The 
current state of CUBE commands can be displayed with a “?” prior to the 
command. Use the “?S” query to display a complete list of current settings.
CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
96
Use the “?S” query to display a list of current settings.
?F - The ?F query
Returns the fault status as a decimal value representing the sum of all current 
faults. If there is no fault in the system, it returns a value of zero.
?FF - The ?FF query
Returns the fault status in a 16-bit binary format representing the sum of all 
faults. The table below shows the decimal equivalent. If there is no fault in the 
system, it returns a value of 0000 0000 0000 0000 or [0].
?FL - The ?FL query
Returns the fault status as text and lists all the current faults. If there is no fault 
in the system, it returns the text message “System OK.”
?H query
Displays a list of the commands and the associated descriptions.
Table 7-1 lists commands and queries for RS-232. See Table 7-4, “Fault Codes,” on 
page 104 for fault codes.  
Table 7-1.  RS-232 CW Commands and Queries
COMMAND FUNCTION RANGE DESCRIPTION
> ***Prompt 
ON-OFF
0, 1 Turns the command prompt on or off.
This setting is stored into memory so that it remains the 
same even after a power on/off cycle.
CDRH ***5 Sec. Delay 
ON-OFF
0, 1 Toggles the CDRH five-second emission delay on and off.
?BT *Base Plate 
Temp
0 to 55 Returns (in degrees Celsius) the present base plate 
temperature. The hardware resolution for this measurement 
is 0.06ºC.
?C *Laser Diode 
Current
0 to 255 Returns (in milliamps) the present operating current of the 
laser diode. The hardware resolution for this measurement 
is 0.1 mA.
CLS **Clear Screen N/A Clears text from a serial communication screen.
?DST Diode Set 
Temp.
15 to 35 Returns (in degrees Celsius) the present set temperature of 
the laser diode. The hardware resolution for this 
measurement is 0.029ºC.
?DT *Diode Present 
Temp.
15 to 35 Returns (in degrees Celsius) the present measured 
temperature of the laser diode.
E **Echo ON-OFF N/A Sets or reads the Echo Off feature. This feature turns 
character echo on or off on a serial communication terminal 
and is useful if a computer script/program—rather than a 
person—is controlling the laser.
?F *Fault Number Returns the present system status as a decimal value 
corresponding to the binary system status. Review the ?F 
table for a complete list of error conditions.
?FF *Fault Binary 
Code
Checks for faults in the system and returns a two-byte result. 
No system fault returns 0000 0000 0000 0000—see 
Table 7-4, “Fault Codes,” on page 104.
Computer Control
97
?FL *Fault List Checks for faults in the system and returns an ASCII result. 
No system fault returns “System OK”—see Table 7-4, “Fault 
Codes,” on page 104.
?HH *Usage Hours 
Head
0 to 100000 Returns the present head hours with a resolution of one 
second. The head hours are tracked in one-minute intervals 
when the system is powered down and restored.
?HID *Head ID Value N/A Returns (as a comma-delimited string) the head serial 
number, head type, and nominal wavelength.
L ***Laser 
ON-OFF
0, 1 Sets the laser status. Setting L=1 enables the laser On. TEC 
servo MUST be ON (T=1) to set L=1. Setting L=0 turns off 
the laser output.
?LT Laser Type N/A When OP=2 operating mode is active, this query returns 
Sapphire laser types. Review the Sapphire manual for 
additional information.
OP ***Operating 
Protocol
1,2,3 Determines the response format for commands and queries. 
OP=1 returns data in the format described in the CUBE 
manual. OP=2 returns data to match responses from 
Coherent Sapphire lasers. OP=3 returns data to match 
responses from Coherent Compass 405 lasers. Review 
Coherent Sapphire and Compass 405 manuals for detailed 
response information.
P ***Laser power 0, MAXLP Sets (in mW) the laser power. The range of P values is 
based on the minimum laser threshold power (?MINLP) and 
the maximum laser power (?MAXLP).
?PSH Power Hours 0/100000 Returns the present Laser Hours.
?PST Computer 
Temperature
N/A Returns the present computer temperature in OP=2 
operating mode.
?SP *Set Power Out 0,MAXLP Returns (in mW) the present laser power setting. This value 
represents the last value entered with the P command.
?SS TEC 0,1 Returns TE status 1=ON, 0=OFF.
?SV
?SVH
*Software 
Version
N/A Reads the CUBE firmware version.
?STA *Operating 
Status #
N/A Returns an integer value representing the present CUBE 
system operating status.
1: Warm Up
2: Standby
3: Laser ON
4: Error
5: System Halted (Fatal Error)
?M *Manual Mode 0,1 Returns the status of the Manual mode control DE-15 pin 3. 
The Manual mode pin normally floats high with no 
connection. When this pin is tied to ground, all laser 
operations require computer control.
?MINLP *Min. Light 
Cont. Pwr.
N/A Returns (in mW) the minimum power available in CW light 
control mode.
?MAXLP *Max. Light 
Cont. Pwr.
N/A Returns (in mW) the maximum laser power available in CW 
light control mode.
Table 7-1.  RS-232 CW Commands and Queries (continued)
COMMAND FUNCTION RANGE DESCRIPTION
CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
98
7.3 Pulsed Commands and Queries
The CUBE command prompt provides feedback associated with the current 
system status and the command or query entered.
Syntax:
Command=<value>
A CUBE command is used to change a present setting. The syntax used for 
CUBE commands is the command followed by an equal sign and a value. No 
spaces are used between the command, equal sign, and the value. For 
example, use the “CAL” command to control the amplitude of the pulse output. 
Enter a power <value> in mW, using the following syntax: “CAL=<value>”.
?NOMP *Nominal Laser 
Pwr.
N/A Returns (in mW) the nominal CW laser output power.
?WAVE *Laser 
Wavelength
N/A Returns the laser operating wavelength, based on a diode 
temperature of 25 degrees Celsius.
?INT,
?LCK
?K
*Interlock 
Status
0,1 The ?INT or ?LCK query returns the status of the interlock 
DE-15 pin 1 status. A value of 1 corresponds to a closed 
status and a value of 0 corresponds to an open status.
?PVPS *Protocol 
Version
N/A Reads the software protocol version. If the CUBE firmware 
is embedded into a process, this query can be used to check 
for changes in command structure. If the firmware version 
changes without changes to the command structure, the this 
query returns the same value for separate firmware 
versions.
T ***Turns TE ON 0,1 Reads or sets the TEC status. Setting T=1 enables the 
temperature control of the laser diode. Setting T=0 disables 
the temperature control.
CW ***CW or Pulse 
Mode
0,1 Switches the operating mode from CW (CW=1) to Pulse 
(CW=0). If Pulse mode is set, the laser runs at the threshold 
power if no voltage is present at the digital pulse input 
connector.
ANA ***Analog 
Control Mode
0,1 Switches the Laser Diode parameter controlled by the 
external analog signal from current (ANA=1) to power 
(ANA= 0). In CW mode, the CUBE is always in 
light-regulation, so the ANA value will remain zero (0).
EXT ***Ext. Analog 
Laser Pwr. 
Control
0,1 Commands either the power or current to be set by the 
external analog modulation input. Querying this command 
returns the command status: EXT=1 for external or EXT=0 
for internal. The external connector is located at laser pin 8 
on the DE-15 connector.
Table 7-1.  RS-232 CW Commands and Queries (continued)
COMMAND FUNCTION RANGE DESCRIPTION
