Computer Control
103
5. Go to the terminal program main window and activate the connection by 
pressing the Call button.  
6. Switch the CUBE laser ON. If a prope r connection is established, it will 
automatically reply to the terminal program with the information shown here.  
7. Commands described in other sections of this manual can be used to 
communicate with the laser. In the following example, a few query commands 
are used to check the power level, wavelength, and the serial number of the 
laser.  
CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
104
7.5 Faults
Faults display on the Status bar. Specific information displays when a 
temperature fault—including Base Plate and Diode Temperature—is present. 
Other faults display with a Fault indicator. To obtain details for other faults, use 
the Terminal screen and enter ?F. 
For steps to resolve issues, go to the section about “Troubleshooting” (p. 107).
7.5.1 Fault Codes
Table 7-4 lists the fault codes that may be displayed.  
Table 7-4.  Fault Codes
?F/?FF
DESCRIPTION/?FL CAUSE POSSIBLE SOLUTIONERROR
VALUE
0 System OK
1 Bad Command Syntax error associated with the 
command
Review and correct the command 
syntax
2 Bad Data Entered data is out of range or there 
is a syntax error associated with the 
data
Review the range of entered data or 
correct the syntax
4 EEPROM Checksum 
Error
Error associated with the system 
EEPROM
Reboot the laser system—contact 
Coherent Technical Support if the 
problem persists
8 Base Plate Temperature Base plate temperature is greater 
than 50ºC
Improve Heat Sink to reduce the base 
plate temperature.
16 Laser Diode 
Temperature
Difference between the diode set 
temperature and the measured 
diode temperature is greater than 
5ºC
Improve Heat Sink to reduce the 
diode temperature
32 Interlock Fault Interlock is open Close the Interlock connection
64 I2C Error Processor-to-hardware 
communication error
Reboot the laser system—contact 
Coherent Technical Support if the 
problem persists
128 Value out of Range Command entered correctly with a 
value that is excessive or deficient 
for the command
Review the range of entered data and 
correct, as necessary
256 nc
512 nc
1024 Flash Reset Internal error caused a reset 
condition for all present settings
Enter the desired values for all 
system parameters
2048 Over Current Laser current exceeded 120% of the 
new system current—result of diode 
degradation over time
Contact Coherent Technical SupportComputer Control
105
7.6 CUBE OEM Tools (Active X Controls)
To aid in the development of an OEM application, Coherent provides a custom 
ActiveX control. This ActiveX control interfaces with any CUBE laser. 
This control provides a development environment with a set of tools. These tools 
enable the programmer to quickly and efficiently communicate with the CUBE 
laser. 
TABLEXREF lists the CUBE OEM Tools ActiveX controls for the following 
methods, properties, and events:  
Refer to the installation location for the Coherent CUBE Connection software for 
detailed information about these items.
• The default location is C:\Program  Files\Coherent\Coherent Connection. 
• Open the file “ CUBEOCX.hlp”.
4096 Reset Clock Internal error caused system clock 
reset
8192 System Time Out Command is not acknowledged by 
the processor
Contact Coherent Technical Support 
if the problem persists
16384 Buffer Overflow Excessive number of commands is 
issued—typical command response 
time is 250 msec.
Space commands by 250 msec
32768 Fatal Error Processor error Reboot the laser system—contact 
Coherent Technical Support if the 
problem persists
Table 7-4.  Fault Codes (continued)
?F/?FF
DESCRIPTION/?FL CAUSE POSSIBLE SOLUTIONERROR
VALUE
Table 7-5.  Active X Controls
CONTROL CUBE INTERFACE
Methods CUBEStart
CUBESendData
Properties CUBEAdded
CUBERemoved
CUBECount
Events CUBEDeviceFound
CUBEDeviceRemoved
Command Set CommandSetCUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
106107
8T ROUBLESHOOTING
This section describes steps to take if there are issues with laser operation.
NOTICE!
Take appropriate ESD precautions when handling and installing a laser. 
Refer to “Electrical Safety” (p. 18) for a description of ESD precautions.
If you experience problems with the CUBE laser system, see the procedures on 
the following pages. If you are not successful in solving the problem or need 
further assistance, either contact Coherent Technical Support (in the US: 
1.800.367.7890), or a worldwide local Coherent service representative (see 
www.Coherent.com
 for worldwide contacts).
Table 8-1 lists possible issues and a link to the associated checklist.  
8.1 Checklist 1: No USB Communication
[   ] Verify Operating System is 32-bit, Win 7 or Win XP. If not, the USB 
connection to a Host Computer Cannot be used. 
[   ] Verify RS-232 connection is made to a recommended RS-232 to USB 
Adapter prior to connecting USB cable end of adapter to Host Computer. 
[   ] Confirm RS-2322 settings (baud rate, etc.) are set properly. See RS-232 
control section.
[   ] Contact Coherent Technical Support.
Table 8-1.  Troubleshooting Procedures
ISSUE SEE…
No USB Communication Checklist 1 (p. 107)
Interlock Fault Checklist 2 (p. 108)
No Laser Emission at Start-up Checklist 3 (p. 108)
System Shuts Down (RS-232 Control) Checklist 4a (p. 109)
System Shuts Down (Analog Control and Manual Mode) Checklist 4b (p. 109)
Low Power (RS-232 Control) Checklist 5a (p. 110)
Low Power (Manual Mode) Checklist 5b (p. 110)
Excessive Scattered Light (All Operating Modes) Checklist 6 (p. 111)
Output Power Not Stable (All Operating Modes) Checklist 7 (p. 111)
Beam Noise Out of Spec (All Operating Modes) Checklist 8 (p. 111)
No RS-232 Communication Checklist 9 (p. 112)
Transverse Mode is Not TEMoo Checklist 10 (p. 112)
Base Plate Over Temperature Checklist 11 (p. 112)CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
108
8.2 Checklist 2: Interlock Fault
If an interlock fault is suspected, execute the following steps.
[   ] Cycle DC power OFF/ON.
[   ] Verify the supply voltage is between 4.8 and 6.5 VDC.
[   ] Connect a computer and send the “?LCK” or “?INT” query. If a value of 0 
is returned, check all interlock connections.
[   ] If the interlock connections are verified to be closed and the “?INT” or 
“?LCK” query return a 0 (Open) condition, contact Coherent Technical 
Support.
8.3 Checklist 3: No Laser Emission 
at Start-up
Laser emission should be present within 5 minutes of start-up.
[   ] Cycle DC power OFF/ON.
[   ] Verify that the shutte r is in the OPEN position.
[   ] Ensure the DE-15 connector is properly secured with locking screws.
[   ] Verify the supply voltage is between 4.8 and 6.5 VDC.
[   ] Use a computer to send “?LCK” or “?INT”. If the response is 0, check all 
interlock connections.
[   ] Send the L=1 command. If laser emission is not detected, contact 
Coherent Technical Support.
[   ] Check for proper heat sinking of  the laser head. Use the “?BT” query to 
ensure the base plate temperature is less than 50°C.
[   ] Issue the “?F” command
[   ] If fault #8 or #16 is returned, ensure the ambient temperature is less than 
40°C and the base plate temperature is less than 50°C.
[   ] If fault #4 is returned, contact Coherent Technical Support for information 
on restoring factory calibration settings.
[   ] If fault #32 is returned, veri fy all system interlocks are closed.
[   ] If fault #64 or #32768 is returned, the system has experienced a serious 
problem. Contact Coherent Technical Support.Troubleshooting
109
8.4 Checklist 4a: System Shuts Down
(RS-232 Control)
[   ] Check for proper heat sinking of  the laser head—refer to “Checklist 11: 
Base Plate Over Temperature” (p. 112).
[   ] Check for proper grounding of the laser head (the laser head cover must 
be at earth ground).
[   ] Issue the “?F” command
[   ] If fault #8 or #16 is returned, ensure the ambient temperature is less than 
40°C and the base plate temperature is less than 50°C.
[   ] If fault #4 is returned, contact Coherent Technical Support for information 
on restoring factory calibration settings.
[   ] If fault #32 is returned, veri fy all system interlocks are closed.
[   ] If fault #64 or #32768 is returned, the system has experienced a serious 
problem. Contact Coherent Technical Support.
8.5 Checklist 4b: System Shuts Down
(Analog Control and Manual Mode)
[   ] Check for proper grounding of the laser head (the head cover must be at 
earth ground potential).
[   ] Verify the power supply is providing a voltage between 4.8  and 6.5 VDC.
[   ] Measure the base plate temperatur e. If it exceeds 50ºC, check for proper 
laser head heat sinking—refer to “Checklist 11: Base Plate Over 
Temperature” (p. 112).
[   ] If using external interlocks, veri fy all external interlocks are closed.
[   ] Contact Coherent Technical Support.CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
110
8.6 Checklist 5a: Low Power (RS-232 
Control)
Measure power only with a calibrated power meter prior to any external optics, or 
use the “?P” command to obtain output power.
[   ] If the system does not achieve the specified maximum power level, use 
the “?SP” and “?MAXLP” queries to ens ure the output power is set to a 
maximum (MAXLP).
[   ] Make sure the output window is clean.
[   ] Use the ?P RS-232 query to check current laser power. If the returned 
value does not represent the expected laser power, use P=<value> to set 
the desired laser power.
[   ] If system does not respond to the “? P” command, verify proper RS-232 set 
up.
[   ] If the value returned by ?P differs from the set power by more than 
1.5 mW, contact Coherent Technical Support.
[   ] Use the ?CW query to check for Pulse mode. If CW=0, and no voltage is 
present on the SMB connector, the laser output will represent threshold. 
The threshold output is normally in the microwatt range.
[   ] Use the ?EXT query to check for active external analog power control. 
If ?EXT returns a value of 1, laser power is reduced. Enter EXT=0 to 
ensure normal power levels.
8.7 Checklist 5b: Low Power (Manual 
Mode)
Make sure laser power is measured by a calibrated power meter, prior to external 
optics.
In Manual mode, the CUBE allows for computer control and queries. Refer to 
“Checklist 4a: System Shuts Down (RS-232 Control)” (p. 109) for appropriate 
computer connections and settings.
[   ] Verify the output window is clean.
[   ] If using the Control Box for external power control, verify the expected 
voltage to the BNC connector.
[   ] If the system does not achieve the specified maximum power level, use 
the “?SP” and “?MAXLP” queries to ens ure the output power is set to a 
maximum (MAXLP).
[   ] Verify the proper RS-232 command is issued. For example, issue the P=10 
command. The “?P” query or external power measurement should result 
in 10 mW (?P=10 mW).
[   ] If the system does not respo nd to the “?P” command, verify proper 
RS-232 set up.
[   ] If “?P” response indicates low power, contact Coherent Technical Support.Troubleshooting
111
8.8 Checklist 6: Excessive Scattered 
Light (All Operating Modes)
[   ] Observe the output beam prior to hitting any external optics. If the output 
beam is OK, clean the external optics.
[   ] Verify the output window is clean.
[   ] Contact Coherent Technical Support.
8.9 Checklist 7: Output Power Not Stable 
(All Operating Modes)
[   ] Measure power only with a calibra ted power meter prior to any external 
optics.
[   ] Allow the system to warm  up for at least 5 minutes.
[   ] Verify the output window is clean.
[   ] Verify all cable connections are secure.
[   ] Measure base plate temperature over a 5-minute period. If the base plate 
temperature is not stable, check for proper heat dissipation—refer to 
“Checklist 11: Base Plate Over Temperature” (p. 112).
[   ] If using the Control Box for laser pow er control, verify a stable input voltage 
to the BNC connector.
[   ] Contact Coherent Technical Support.
8.10 Checklist 8: Beam Noise Out of Spec 
(All Operating Modes)
[   ] Make sure beam noise is measured prior to any external optics.
[   ] Verify the output window is clean.
[   ] Check for proper heat sinking.
[   ] Verify there is no vibrations at the laser.
[   ] Check for proper grounding of the laser cover.
[   ] Contact Coherent Technical Support.CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
112
8.11 Checklist 9: No RS-232 
Communication
[   ] Verify all connections are secure.
[   ] Verify RS-232 setting (baud rate, etc.) See RS-232 control section.
[   ] Ensure the communication cable is not a Null-modem.
[   ] Verify cable length does not exceed 5 m (16.4ft).
[   ] Use a second computer to exclude a defective RS-232 port at the 
controlling computer.
[   ] Contact Coherent Technical Support.
8.12 Checklist 10: Transverse Mode is Not 
TEMoo
[   ] Make sure the beam is observed prior to external optics. If the beam 
quality is correct, clean the external optics.
[   ] Verify the output window is clean.
[   ] Contact Coherent Technical Support.
8.13 Checklist 11: Base Plate Over 
Temperature
[   ] Verify the proper size of the heat sink—refer to “CUBE Heat Sink 
(Optional)” (p. 40) for more information.
[   ] Verify proper operation of the Heat Si nk (that is, if a fan is used to cool the 
Heat Sink, make sure it is operating properly.)
[   ] Verify the Heat Sink compound, if used, is applied evenly between the 
laser head and the Heat Sink.
[   ] Verify the surface of the Heat Si nk contacting the laser head is flat.
[   ] Verify the ambient temperature does not exceed 50ºC.113
AP ARTS LIST
This section describes the parts shipped with the CUBE laser system.
The following parts can be ordered by contacting Coherent Technical Support:
• By email:  customer.support@coherent.com
• Visit our website: www.Coherent.com 
and search for a Coherent service representative for your local area.
• By phone: 1-(800)-367-7890 or 1-(408)-764-4557 outside the U.S.
When communicating with Coherent Technical Support, be prepared to provide 
the model and serial number of the Laser Head to the Support Engineer 
responding to your request. You can locate the date of manufacturing for your 
laser system on the label with the serial number.
• Effective January 1, 2007, the CUBE Laser System was released as 
RoHS-compliant.
• If your laser system was purchased prior to January 1, 2007, contact Coherent 
Technical Support to determine if the items listed in Table A-1 are the 
appropriate part numbers for your laser system.
A.1 Parts in the CUBE Laser System
Table A-1 lists the parts included with the CUBE laser system:  
Table A-1.  Parts List for CUBE Laser System
P/N COMPONENT QTY
See CUBE 
data sheet
CUBE Laser Head 1
1039966 CUBE Control Box 1
1072454 CUBE Power Supply, 6 VDC, 2.5A, Switched 1
1108063 Power Cord, North America 1
1072166 CUBE Interface Cable (Quatro Digital Interface) included at 
no extra charge. This cable provides connectors from the 
CUBE laser to the control box, I/O, RS-232, and power.
(NOTE The cable connects to the optional CUBE I/O Cable, 
8-Pin to Flying Leads, P/N 1103937, not included with the 
laser system and which must be ordered separately.)
1
1108906 USB Cable 1
1147585 CUBE Quick Start Guide 1
1079890 CD-ROM with CUBE Operator’s Manual and Coherent CUBE 
Connection Software
1
Included Modified M4 Mounting Screws (4 each),
M4 Small Pattern Washer (4 each), and 
small Hex wrench (1 each)CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
114
A.2 Optional Accessories (Order 
Separately)
Optional Accessories for the CUBE laser system are listed in Table A-2. 
NOTE:
These accessories are not shipped with the CUBE Laser System and must be 
ordered separately.
 
Table A-2.  Accessories for the CUBE Laser System
P/N DESCRIPTION
1073840 CUBE Heat Sink with Fan
1116779 CUBE Right-Angle Heat Sink Mount 
1079150 CUBE Secondary Emission Indicator Lamp
1040408 Non-Shorted RCA Plug
1103937 CUBE I/O Interface Cable, 8-Pin to Flying Leads 
(This optional cable connects to the CUBE Quatro Digital Interface 
Cable, P/N 1072166. That cable is included with the CUBE Laser 
System.)
1415602 High-Speed USB-to-Serial RS-232 Adapter
1080090 Cable Extension to Extend Control Box or 
RS-232 M-F, DB-9 Cable115
BP OWER METERS AND SENSORS
For the most common diagnostics—measuring the output power of the CUBE 
laser system—Coherent offers a variety of instruments for laser test and 
measurement that cover that entire wavelength range.
This section describes power meters and sensors that are an ideal fit for the 
CUBE product family, including:
• For Cube lasers with a meter:
• FieldMaxII-TO Las er Power Meter
• PS10 sensor
• For Cube lasers in installa tions that want a meter integrated into the sensor: 
• USB PowerMax UV/VIS Power Sensor
or USB PowerMax UV/VIS Wand
• USB/RS PS10Q sensor (USB or RS)
• USB PS10 sensor
For more detailed information and product data sheets, visit the Coherent 
website:
https://www.coherent.com/measurement-control/measurement/powermax-
usb-sensors 
B.1 Meter: FieldMaxII–TO
The FieldMaxII–TO is an affordable and versatile digital meter that is designed for 
ease-of-use in field service and production applications. The meter supports 
on-board analysis of mean, minimum, maximum, and standard deviation 
statistics.
Coherent recommends a FieldMaxII-TO digital power and energy meter for use 
with the PS10 sensor. Figure B-1 shows the FieldMaxII-TO Laser Power Meter 
(P/N 1098579):  
Figure B-1.  FieldMaxII–TO Meter (Power Only)
CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
116
The FieldMaxII-TO Laser Power Meter measures power from nW to kW, and 
pulse energy from nJ to J at up to 300 pps. The Measurement Range is 
dependent on the sensor (refer to the sensor specifications for details).
A FieldMaxII–TO meter features:
• A large, easy-to-read back-lit LCD display
• An intuitive user interface offering bu tton-driven control for simple operation.
•
Area function for density measurements (J/cm2 or W/cm2)
• the FieldMaxII USB interface to use wit h the FieldMaxII PC software provided 
by Coherent
• Simulated analog-like movement for laser tuning
• LabVIEW instrument driver; simple La bVIEW examples are provided for basic 
functionality of the meter
• Compatible with Windows 7, 8, and 10  operating systems (32-bit and 64-bit) 
The FieldMaxII PC software supports trend charting, tuning, statistics, and 
logging data to a file.
Multiple meters can be run on a single PC. This can be useful for final test and 
burn-in applications.
For more advanced interface and full operation in automation, refer to the 
LabMax-Pro SSIM Meter User’s Manual. 
For more information about products, go to the Coherent website:
https://www.coherent.com/measurement-control/measurement/fieldmaxii-to
 
B.2 PowerMax Sensors
Coherent PowerMax-USB sensors provide plug-and-play laser power 
measurement directly on a PC without the need for additional electronic 
instrumentation.
For more information, see the Coherent website:
https://www.coherent.com/measurement-control/measurement/high-
sensitivity-thermopile-sensors-to-2w-rohs 
This section describes a variety of PowerMax sensors that support the CUBE 
Laser System.
B.2.1 PS10 Sensor
The PS10 model sensors (P/N 1098350) are thermally stabilized, amplified 
thermopile power sensors with a broad spectral response, high sensitivity, and a 
large active area. These sensors are ideal for measuring laser diodes, HeNe and 
HeCd lasers, and small ion lasers.
The PS10 model includes a light tube mounted to the front of the housing, which 
minimizes the effects of background radiation and narrows the field of view. 
Alternatively, the light tube can be removed and replaced by a fiber adapter 
accessory.Power Meters and Sensors
117
The PS10 sensor shown, in FIG, is a low-power thermopile sensor with 10 uW 
resolution (10mm aperture).  
Features of the PS10 sensor include:
• Thermally stabilized design for low power sensitivity
• Noise equivalent power down to 3 μW
• Spectrally flat; good for broadband light sources
• Wavelength Range: 300 to 2100 nm
B.2.2 USB Sensors
The measurement circuitry typically found in a standalone meter has been 
reduced in size to extent that it can now fit inside a USB connector. The circuitry 
and USB connector have been adapted into a ‘PowerMax-USB’ cable that can be 
integrated to most Coherent power sensors, providing accurate power 
measurements of all types of CW and pulsed sources from the UV to Far IR.
Table B-1 lists the Coherent sensors and lists the part number for each.  
Each of these are described in the subsections that follow.
Figure B-2.  PS10 Thermopile Sensor
Table B-1.  Thermopile Sensor Product Description
PRODUCT/DESCRIPTION P/N
USB PS10 High-Sensitivity Thermopile Sensor P/N 1174260 (USB)
USB PowerMax UV/VIS Power Sensor 
or USB PowerMax UV/VIS Wand 
P/N 1168337
P/N 1212310
USB/RS PS10Q Sensor (USB or RS) P/N 1287077 (USB)
P/N 1288992 (RS)CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
118
B.2.2.1 USB PS10 Sensor
The USB PS10 High-Sensitivity Thermopile Sensor (PN 1174260) is USB-
enabled, low-power thermopile sensor with 3 uW NEP (10 mm aperture) (RoHS).
This Laser Measurement device provides direct USB 2.0 connection to a PC, with 
measurement resolution down to 10 µW and a wide spectral range.
The PS10 model includes a light tube mounted to the front of the housing, which 
minimizes the effects of background radiation. The light tube can be removed and 
replaced by FC or SMA fiber connectors.
Figure B-3 shows the USB PS10 Sensor  
Features of the USB PS10 Sensor include:
• Thermally stabilized design for low power sensitivity
• Noise equivalent power down to 3 μW
• Spectrally flat; good for broadband light sources
B.2.2.2 PowerMax-USB UV/VIS Sensors
There are two models available for the PowerMax-USB UV/VIS sensors:
• PowerMax-USB UV/VIS Quantum Power Sensors (P/N 1168337)
USB-enabled, Low power optical sensor with 100 nW NEP with ND2 filter 
(10 mm aperture) (RoHS)
• PowerMax-USB UV/VIS Wand (P/N 1299161)
PowerMax USB Wand UV/VIS Quantum Power Sensor, Metal Enclosure
Figure B-4 shows the PowerMax-USB UV/VIS Quantum Power Sensor and the 
PowerMax-USB UV/VIS Wand:  
Features of the UV/VIS sensors include:
• Large 8 mm and 10 mm apertures
• High-sensitivity Silicon photodiode
• Low power measurements down to 5 μW (wavelength dependent)
• Spectral response from 325 nm to 1065 nm
Figure B-3.  USB PS10 Sensor
Power Meters and Sensors
119
The PowerMax-USB UV/VIS Quantum sensors incorporate a Silicon photodiode, 
for measurement of power from 5 μW to several hundred milliwatts. The 
measurable power varies significantly by wavelength.
B.2.2.3 USB/RS PS10Q Sensor
There are two models available for the PS10Q Sensor:
• PS10Q Sensor (P/N 1287077) — for USB
• PS10Q Sensor (P/N 1288992) — for RS
Where optimum stability is required, the PS10Q includes a wedged quartz 
window, for applications from 0.3 to 2.0 μm. The quartz window more effectively 
eliminates thermal background radiation and the effects of air currents.
Features of the USB PS10Q Sensor include:
• Thermally stabilized designs 
• Power measurement from 100 μW to 1 W
•1 0 μW resolution
• 10 mm and 19 mm apertures
• Direct USB and RS-232 interfaces
• FC and SMA fiber adapters
• RoHS compliant
Figure B-4.  PowerMax-USB UV/VIS Sensor and Wand
CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
120121
CS ERVICE & SUPPORT
This section provides information about:
• How to contact Technical Support
• How to obtain service
• Product shipping instructions
C.1 Technical Support
Coherent provides telephone and web-based technical assistance as a service to 
its customers and assumes no liability for any injury or damage that can occur at 
the same time with such services.
Operation of any Coherent laser with any of its interlocks (or safety features) 
defeated is always at the operator's own risk. Under no circumstances do these 
support services affect the terms of any Warranty agreement between Coherent 
and the buyer.
Be prepared to provide the following information to the Product Support Engineer 
responding to your request:
• Model or part number of your unit
• Laser head serial number
• A description of the problem
• Any corrective steps you may have attempted
C.1.1 Support in the USA and North America
Should you experience any difficulties with your laser or need product or technical 
information, contact Coherent as follows:
• By email:  customer.support@coherent.com
• Visit our website: www.Coherent.com
Should you need further assistance, please contact Coherent Technical Support:
• By phone: 1-(800)-367-7890 or 1-(408)-764-4557 outside the U.S.
Telephone coverage is available Monday through Friday (except U.S. holidays 
and company shutdowns). Inquiries received outside of normal office hours will 
be captured by our automatic answering system and calls will be quickly returned 
the next business day.
C.1.2 International Support
If you are located outside the U.S., visit www.Coherent.com for technical 
assistance, or contact your local Service Representative directly:
• Germany: +49–6071–968–0
• Japan: +813–5635–8680
On the Coherent website, you can also view contact information (telephone 
numbers and addresses) for Service Representatives worldwide.CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
122
C.2 Obtaining Service
To obtain service under this warranty, Customer must notify the Company of the 
defect before the expiration of the warranty period and make suitable 
arrangements for the performance of service.
The Company shall, in its sole discretion, determine whether to perform warranty 
service at the Customer's facility, at the Company's facility, or at an authorized 
repair station.
If Customer is directed by the Company to ship the product to the Company or a 
repair station, Customer shall:
• Package the product (to protect from damage during shipping) as instructed in 
“Product Shipping Instructions” next.
• Ship it to the address specified by the Company, with shipping prepaid. back 
to Coherent in conjunction with recalibration and recertification.
• Coherent shall pay the cost of shipping the Product back to the Customer in 
conjunction with product failures within the first twelve (12) months of time of 
sale or during an extended 12-month warranty period.
C.3 Product Shipping Instructions
You must include a Returned Material Authorization number (RMA) assigned by 
the Company on the outside of all shipping packages and containers. Items 
returned without an RMA number are subject to return to the sender. Detailed 
instructions to prepare a product for shipping are provided in the next section.
To prepare a product for shipping to Coherent:
1. Contact Customer Service for a Return Material Authorization number.
2. Attach a tag to the product that incl udes the name and address of the owner, 
the person to contact, the serial number, and the RMA number you received 
from Coherent Customer Service. Pack this tag inside the box.
3. Wrap the product with polyethyle ne sheeting or equivalent material.
4. Using the original shipping and packaging materials, pack the product.
5. Seal the shipping carton with shipping tape or an industrial stapler.
6. Add the RMA number you received from Coherent Customer Service to the 
shipping label on the outside of the box. Ship the product to the following 
address:
Coherent, Inc.
Attn: RMA #
27650 SW 95th Ave.
Wilsonville, OR 97070 USA123
DW ARRANTY
Coherent, Inc. warrants OBIS Laser Systems to the original purchaser (the Buyer) 
only; that the laser system that is the subject of this sale, (a) conforms to 
Coherent's published specifications, and (b) is free from defects in materials and 
workmanship.
Laser systems are warranted to conform to Coherent's published specifications and 
to be free from defects in materials and workmanship as specified in the sales or 
service contract. Replacement units shipped within warranty carry the remainder 
warranty of the failed unit.
D.1 Responsibilities of the Buyer
The Buyer is responsible for providing the appropriate utilities and an operating 
environment as outlined in the product literature. Damage to the laser system 
caused by failure of Buyer's utilities or failure to maintain an appropriate operating 
environment, is solely the responsibility of the Buyer and is specifically excluded 
from any warranty, warranty extension, or service agreement.
The Buyer is responsible for prompt notification to Coherent of any claims made 
under warranty. In no event will Coherent be responsible for warranty claims made 
later than seven (7) days after the expiration of warranty.
The foregoing warranty shall not apply to defects resulting from any of the following 
conditions:
D.2 Limitations of Warranty
The foregoing warranty shall not apply to defects resulting from any of the following 
conditions:
• Components and accessories manufacture d by companies other than Coherent, 
which have separate warranties
• Improper or inadequate maintenance by the Buyer
• Buyer-supplied interfacing
• Operation outside the environmenta l specifications of the product
• Unauthorized modification or misuse
• Improper site preparation and maintenance
• Opening the housing
Coherent assumes no responsibility for customer-supplied material. The 
obligations of Coherent are limited to repairing or replacing, without charge, 
equipment that proves to be defective during the warranty period. Replacement 
sub-assemblies may contain reconditioned parts. Repaired or replaced parts are 
warranted for the duration of the original warranty period only. The warranty on 
parts purchased after expiration of system warranty is ninety (90) days. This 
warranty does not cover damage due to misuse, negligence or accidents; or 
damage due to installations, repairs or adjustments not authorized specifically by 
Coherent.CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
124
This warranty applies only to the original purchaser at the initial installation point 
in the country of purchase, unless otherwise specified in the sales contract. The 
warranty is transferable to another location or to another customer only by special 
agreement, which will include additional inspection or installation at the new site. 
Coherent disclaims any responsibility to provide product warranty, technical or 
service support to a customer that acquires products from someone other than 
Coherent or an authorized representative.
THIS WARRANTY IS EXCLUSIVE IN LIEU OF ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, 
WHETHER WRITTEN, ORAL OR IMPLIED, AND DOES NOT COVER 
INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL LOSS. COHERENT SPECIFICALLY 
DISCLAIMS THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.125
GLOSSARY
°C Degrees Centigrade or Celsius
°F Degrees Fahrenheit
Ω Ohm(s)
μ Micron(s)
μm Micrometer(s) = 10 -6 meters
μrad Microradian(s) = 10 -6 radians
μsec Microsecond(s) = 10 -6 seconds
1/e2 Beam diameter parameter = 0.13534
AC Alternating current
Address A unique one-byte identifier assigned to each device on the bus
Amp Ampere(s)
APC Angle physical contact
Application Protocol
A set of application defined commands and replies used to implement a system of 
cooperative devices
Automatic Send Data Control
An optional hardware feature that is useful to control enable/disable of transmit enable 
line of RS-485 transceiver
BNC Type of connector
Broadcast Message
Message sent by a master device and received by all connected slave devices
BUSMGMT
Message is a bus management message.
CCB Coherent Connection Bus, a RS-485 communication bus
CDRH Center for Devices and Radiological Health
cm Centimeter(s)
CW Continuous wave
DC Direct current
DDL Direct diode laser
Destination Address
Address of the recipient device for a message
DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Pr otocol. A protocol that provides a means to dynamically 
allocate IP addresses to computers on a local area network.
DLE Data link escape
EOM A two-byte sequence indicating the end of a message packet
ESD Electrostatic discharge
ETX End of message data
FC Fiber-connector
FP Fiber pigtail
g Gram(s) or earth’s gravitational force (gravity)
GUI Graphical user interface
Hz Hertz or cycles per second (f requency) (= 1/pulse period)
IEC International Electrotechnical Commission
IR Infrared (wavelength)
I/O Input/output
kg Kilogram(s) = 10
3 gramsBeamView.NET User Manual
126
kHz Kilohertz = 10 3 hertz
kOhm Kilohm(s) = 10 3 ohms
LCD Liquid crystal display
LED Light emitting diode
m Meter(s) (length)
mA Milliamp(s) = 10 -3 Amperes
mAmp Milliampere(s)
Master Controlling device which manages bu s direction, assigns device addresses, 
and generally the source for all application protocol command initiation
MHz Megahertz = 10 6 hertz
mm Millimeter(s) = 10 -3 meters
mrad Milliradian(s) = 10 -3 radians (angle)
ms Millisecond(s) = 10 -3 seconds
mV Millivolt(s)
MVP Modulation and variable power
mW Milliwatt(s) = 10 -3 Watts (power)
NA Numerical aperture
nm Nanometer(s) = 10 -9 meters (wavelength)
Nm Newton meter (torque)
OEM Original equipment manufacturer
OPSL Optically-pumped semiconductor laser
oz·in. Ounce inches
PIP Port Identification Pin, a signal pin located on the cable connecting the slave 
device to the CCB
PPS Pulses per second
rms Root mean square (effective value of a sinusoidal wave)
RMA Return material authorization
SCPI Standard commands for programm able instruments. This standard, 
developed by Hewlett-Packard, complements IEEE 488.2 and is promoted by 
the SCPI Consortium.
SDR Shrunk delta ribbon. This connector type is used on the back panel of the OBIS 
Laser for the full-feature I/O cable.
Slave Device which receives and interprets messages and responds as required
SOM A two-byte sequence indicating the start of a message packet
Source Address
Address of the device transmitting a message
Standard Message
Message sent from the master device to a specific slave device address
SRCCCB
Message originated from CCB stack.
SRCCONT
Message originated from master device (controller).
STX Start of message data
System Protocol
A set of predefined bus management commands and responses used by CCB 
protocol stacks for set-up and management of the bus
TEC Thermoelectric cooler
TEM Transverse electromagnetic mode (cross-sectional laser beam mode)
TTL Transistor-transistor logic
UART Universal asynchronous receiver/transmitter127
UFC Ultra-flat contact
UV Ultraviolet
VV o l t ( s )
VAC Volts, alternating current
VDC Volts, direct current
W Watt(s) (power)BeamView.NET User Manual
128129
INDEX
A
Accession numbers 23
Analog control 69
B
back reflection 16
Buyer responsibilities 123
C
Cable, interface 58
CAUTION 11
CDRH
Accession numbers 23
compliance in manual 11
Feature 93
Classification, laser 22
Compliance
China ROHS 25
EU ROHS 25
Component lasers 15
Connections
Laser to the control box 59
Power 58
Control box
Interlock connection 60
Keyswitch 59
CUBE, CDRH accession numbers 23
CW operation 68
D
DANGER 11
Digital control 73
Disable CDRH procedure 93
E
export control laws 12
H
Heat dissipation 42
Heat sink
Heat dissipation 42
Requirements 41, 42
I
icons for safety symbols 12
Installation
Heat sink 41
USB driver 77
installation 53
Interface cable 58
Interlock
Control box 60
Requirements 94
Interlock connection
Control box 60
K
Keyswitch, control box 59
L
Laser emission, classification 22
Laser safety 13
Equipment and training 28
Guidelines 27
Publications 27
Standards 27
Location of safety labels 24
M
Maximum accessible radiation level 15
N
NOTICE 11
O
Operation
CW 68
Optical safety 14
Safety glasses 15
P
Power connection 58
Power supply
Specifications 38, 39
R
Receiving and inspection 53
Requirements
Heat sink 41, 42
Interlock 94
Responsibilities of the buyer 123
RS-232
Commands and queries 96, 99
Connector 62
S
Safety
electrical 13
Equipment and training 28
Features 22
Glasses 15
Guidelines 27
Label location 24
Labels 24
Laser 13
Optical 14
optical 13
Publications 27
standards, laser 27
safety 13
Safety features 22
Key control 20
Laser emission indicators 20
Protective housing 19
Remote interlock 20
Shutter 22
safety symbols 12130
set-up 53
signal words 11
Signal words used in this manual 11
Specifications
Power supply 38, 39
Symbols used in this manual 12
System standby
Sleep mode 94
T
Timing diagram 74
U
USB
Control 77
Driver installation 77
W
WARNING 11
Warranty
Limitations of warranty 123
Responsibilities of the buyer 123CUBE Laser System Operator’s Manual
© Coherent Inc., September 2020 (RoHS)
Part No. 1079231, Rev AH
*1079231*